[BYOD - Installation and configuration guide](01-labs-01-odl-uniconfig-first-steps/byod.html)

[>>> Head back to step 1: Mount a Cisco IOS XE device via CLI <<<](01-labs-01-odl-uniconfig-first-steps/1.md)  

# Step 2: Check if the device is connected 

In previous step, you have mounted a Cisco IOS XE device to the OpenDaylight. Now we have to make sure if it has connected properly.

Output request contains informations such as connection status, connection message, error patterns, note ID, port number, available capabilities and host IP. The most important outcome informations for you will be connection status and connection message.

In the left column of **Postman** environment, select "Collections" tab, click on "sample XE collection" and find "check xe uc status connected" GET request.

Press "**Send**" to execute request.

Study the content of request to properly capture the point. 

The collection request for "check xe uc status connected" reads:

```
GET

[http://{{odl_ip}}:8181/restconf/operational/network-topology:network-topology/topology/{{topology_id_cli}}/node/{{node_id}}

```

The approvement of successful device connection will read as follows:

```

[...]

"cli-topology:connection-status": "connected",

"cli-topology:connected-message": "Success",

[...]

```

Connection of the device may take no more than 20 seconds. Be aware of the connection status displayed in the output "Body":

```
{

   "node": [
   	{
		"node-id": "xe",
       		"cli-topology:connection-status": "connecting",
       		"cli-topology:connected-message": "Connecting",
       		"cli-topology:default-error-patterns": {
	           	"error-pattern": [
	               	"% Configure the peer-group .+ first",
	               	"(^|\\n)% (?i)invalid input(?-i).*",
	               	"(^|\\n)% (?i)Incomplete command(?-i).*",
	               	"(^|\\n)% (?i)BGP(?-i).*",
	               	"(^|\\n)^\\s+\\^.*",
	               	"(^|\\n)% Topology global(?-i).*"
           				 ]

       	},
       	"cli-topology:default-commit-error-patterns": {}

   	}

   	  ]

}
```
While the "cli-topology:connection-status" and "cli-topology:connected-message" writes "Connecting", wait for a little while for the device to connect. If the device takes too long to connect, check your connectivity, IP address in the environment configuration, username and password correctness.

Expected status code: **200 OK**

[>>> Next, head for step 3: UniConfig API call to show all interfaces <<<](01-labs-01-odl-uniconfig-first-steps/3.md)  
