# CLL: FRINX OpenDaylight & UniConfig - First Steps

In this lab you will learn to install FRINX OpenDaylight (ODL) with UniConfig and run a number of API calls from a Postman collection to configure an IOS XE networking device. During the course of this lab you will learn how to mount a network device to FRINX ODL, how to make an API call to retrieve the interfaces of the IOS XE device in OpenConfig format, how to create a loopback address and set its IP address in OpenConfig format and finally how to send a native IOS command and retrieve the output from the router.

## Objective

* Understand how FRINX OpenDaylight can be used as a controller to manage complex configurations in heterogeneous networking environments
* Learn how to use the FRINX ODL & UniConfig APIs to configure the network and retrieve information from the network in a common standardized format (OpenConfig) as well as in vendor specific format (e.g. IOS XE)

### Completion Time: 45 minutes

## Prerequisites

**Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet**

## Step 1: Mount a Cisco IOS XE device via CLI

Next we will mount the IOS XE device in ODL. The mount operation for NETCONF or CLI devices in FRINX ODL results in a permanent connection that is established, maintained and if necessary re-established with the device. Once a device is mounted in FRINX OpenDaylight, it can be accessed via the UniConfig framework for reading and writing configuration and operational data.

Before mounting a device, do not forget to edit the environment according to your needs. For example, insert correct IP address of the running ODL and the device itself as well as password and username on the XE device.

In the left column select "Collections" tab, click on "sample XE collection" and find "Mount IOS XE" PUT request. Requests used in next chapters are listed below.

Press "**Send**" to execute request.

Study the content of request to properly capture the point. 

```
PUT

http://{{odl_ip}}:8181/restconf/config/network-topology:network-topology/topology/{{topology_id_cli}}/node/{{node_id}}

```

The response should look as follows:

```
{

   "network-topology:node" :

   {

 	"network-topology:node-id" : "{{node_id}}",  	

	"cli-topology:host" : "{{classic_ip}}",

 	"cli-topology:port" : "{{topology_port}}",

 	"cli-topology:transport-type" : "{{protocol}}",  	

	"cli-topology:device-type" : "ios",

 	"cli-topology:device-version" : "15.2",  	

	"cli-topology:username" : "{{username}}",

 	"cli-topology:password" : "{{password}}",  	

	"cli-topology:journal-size": 150,

 	"cli-topology:dry-run-journal-size": 180,  	

	"cli-topology:keepalive-delay" : 45,

 	"cli-topology:keepalive-timeout" : 45

   }

}

```
Expected Status code: **201 Created**

Checking if the device is connected successfully will be approved in the next request. 
