[Installation and configuration guide](installation-instructions.html)

# A sample application to create LACP link bundles

In this lab you will learn how to use and create a simple Python application that leverages the FRINX UniConfig framework to provision LACP link bundles on network devices. The purpose of this application is to show developers how to use the UniConfig API in FRINX ODL to configure services in network devices.

## Objective

* Learn how to use and build a Python application that uses the UniConfig framework
* Learn how to programmatically configure LACP link bundles to aggregate several parallel physical connections into one logical connection

### Completion Time: 10 minutes

## Prerequisites

* Install and run the FRINX ODL distribution
* Install and run Postman
* Mount 2 routers via Postman environment (IOS XR CLI or JunOS NETCONF)

For further guidance click on Installation and configuration guide located on top of the page.

## Step 0: lacp-sevice.py and FRINX UniConfig

For a simple and efficient programming experience, we provide a Python client library generated by Swagger that exposes the  Uniconfig API. You can inspect the library by unzipping the .whl file provided together with the lacp app source code. The application that we wrote is called lacp-service.py and automates the process of configuring LACP link bundles between two network devices using the UniConfig API. The application was created for demonstration purposes and is not meant for use in production.

### Get to know LACP

Link aggregation addresses two problems with Ethernet connections, which are bandwith limitations and lack of resilience. Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP) within IEEE specification provides a method to control bundling of several physical ports together to form a single logical channel. LACP allows a network device to negotiate automatic bundling of links by sending LACP packets to the peer.

### LACP Features and practical examples

* Maximum number of bundled ports allowed in the port channel: Valid values are usually from 1 to 8.
* LACP packets are sent with multicast group MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:02 (01-80-c2-00-00-02)
* During LACP detection period
  * LACP packets are transmitted every second
  * Keep alive mechanism for link member: (default: slow = 30s, fast=1s)
* LACP can have the port-channel load-balance mode 
* LACP mode:
  * **active**: Enables LACP unconditionally.
  * **passive**: Enables LACP only when an LACP device is detected. (This is the default state)

### Advantages over static configuration

* **Failover occurs automatically**: When a link fails and there is (for example) a media converter between the devices, a peer system will not perceive any connectivity problems. With static link aggregation, the peer would continue sending traffic down the link causing the connection to fail.

* **Dynamic configuration**: The device can confirm that the configuration at the other end can handle link aggregation. With Static link aggregation, a cabling or configuration mistake could go undetected and cause undesirable network behavior.



[>>> Head to step 1: Install and configure LACP service application <<<](2.md)  
